Before moving on further in the module,
lets take a look at some
examples of data visualization.
These visualizations comes from different
sources, including the Web and News Media,
mostly newspapers.
Most of the examples are not
ideal visualizations and
can be improve upon in
many different ways.
As I show those examples,
it would be helpful for
you to think about the good and
the bad about each of the graph.
We will come back to many of those
examples later in the module to
use them as contact for our discussion.
This video is based on [INAUDIBLE] survey.
It illustrate the gap between how
millennials describe themselves and
how HR professional describe them.
At first sight,
this video is quite interesting.
But can you spot any issues with it?
Your first instinct would probably
be to read it as part of a whole.
But clearly,
the percentages don't add up to 100%.
So the shading can be based on percentage
of the speaker figure's surface area.
This might mean it's based on height or
distance.
Similar to a map legend, for
instance, a half inch would equal 1%,
but even that is ambiguous, because how
tall is this [INAUDIBLE] figure really?
The shading might be completely arbitrary,
and
gets especially confusing when
the visualization splits up the shading.
In addition to all of this,
there are also type of comments.
The purpose is completely unclear.
Does it makes the message more compelling?
This graph is a 3D bar graph for the
Worldwide Revenue of the analytics company
SaaS, and its research and
development spending.
Can you suggest any improvement?
What about this one?
This graph represents where
your tax dollars would go and
to see what portion of the federal budget
is dedicated to different program areas
under President Obama's
proposed budget for 2016.
The original video is found on
the official White House website.
This type of graph is called a tree map.
The main challenge with this graph is
that comparison is very difficult.
In order to compare two figures,
we need to compare the areas of two rough
angles, which is not easy for most people.
It is also unclear whether there's any
meaning to the coloring scheme either.
This visualization is from
the USA Today website.
Do you know what type of graph it is?
When I first looked at it,
it took me ten seconds to figure out
that the graphic was a line graph.
My eyes immediately went to
the picture of the house.
Placing a picture of a house on top of
the graph make the boundaries of the graph
difficult to discern, especially since
they are similar in color to the house.
The data increment lines on
the y-axis even go beyond the house.
It would have been helpful to use
a different color for the x and
the y-axis increments on the lines.
Additionally, it remains clear as to
why the house changes color above
the trendline.
Finally, without a description
in the upper-left column,
this graph is meaningless.
Neither the x-axis nor the y-axis
are labeled with titles or have units.
The x-axis could be determined to
be yeras without a description,
while the y-axis remains unclear.
Overall, this data visualization needs
to be redesigned to better convey
its message.
This is an interesting example for
data visualization,
which was created on purpose by
the Americans United for Life,
as a propaganda piece
against Planned Parenthood.
Can you spot any issues with the graph?
We will discuss this graph in
a little more details later.